docs: [IAC-1862]: IaCM Onboarding guide (#6727)
harness/developer-hub: docs/infra-as-code-management/get-started/onboarding-guide.md

---
title: IaCM onboarding guide
description: A self-service onboarding guide for Harness IaCM.
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Onboarding guide
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# IaCM onboarding guide

> Welcome to the Harness Infrastructure as Code Management (IaCM) onboarding guide. This document introduces you to the powerful capabilities of IaCM using Harness and guides you through key functionalities that streamline and secure your infrastructure management tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the Harness Infrastructure as Code Management (IaCM) onboarding guide. This topic introduces you to the powerful capabilities of IaCM using Harness and guides you through key functionalities that streamline and secure your infrastructure management tasks.
```

## What is IaCM?

> Infrastructure as Code Management (IaCM) refers to managing and provisioning computing infrastructure through machine-readable definition files rather than physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools. By using IaCM, teams can ensure consistency, accountability, and repeatability within their environments. Harness enhances IaCM with features like real-time cost estimation, automated policy enforcement and drift detection, ensuring that your infrastructure is provisioned efficiently and complies with organizational standards and budget constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure as Code Management (IaCM) refers to managing and provisioning computing infrastructure through machine-readable definition files rather than physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools. By using IaCM, teams can ensure consistency, accountability, and repeatability within their environments. Harness enhances IaCM with features like real-time cost estimation, automated policy enforcement, and drift detection, ensuring that your infrastructure is provisioned efficiently and complies with organizational standards and budget constraints.
```

> Infrastructure as Code Management (IaCM) refers to managing and provisioning computing infrastructure through machine-readable definition files rather than physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools. By using IaCM, teams can ensure consistency, accountability, and repeatability within their environments. Harness enhances IaCM with features like real-time cost estimation, automated policy enforcement, and drift detection, ensuring that your infrastructure is provisioned efficiently and complies with organizational standards and budget constraints.

Author: Updated

## Prerequisites

Before beginning the walkthroughs in this guide, ensure you have:

- Access to a Harness account.
- Access to a Git provider with your Terraform file.
- An [organization and project set up](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/organizations-and-projects/create-an-organization) on the Harness Platform.
- A [configured Connector to your Cloud Provider](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/cloud-providers)

> - A [configured Connect to your Git repository](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/code-repositories/connect-to-code-repo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [configured Connector to your Git repository](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/code-repositories/connect-to-code-repo)
```

- A [configured Connector to your Git repository](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/code-repositories/connect-to-code-repo)

:::note
You can add new Cloud Provider and Git repository connectors via the steps in the above links or when creating a new workspace.
:::

## Sample Terraform

The following example Terraform (.tf) file declares:

- Provider Configuration: Specifies the AWS provider and sets the region to "us-east-1". Go to [AWS Regions & Availability Zones](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.RegionsAndAvailabilityZones.html) for a complete region list.
- Resource Definition: Creates an EC2 instance with the identifier `my_first_ec2_instance`.
- AMI: Utilizes ami-123abc321cba18, go to [AWS EC2 User Guide](# https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/finding-an-ami.html) to find your AMI image ID.

> - Instance Type: Configures the instance to use a t2.micro, offering cost-effective performance suitable for low to moderate demand. Go to the [AWS t2 instances list](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/t2/).

Author: Done

> Tags: To facilitate easy identification and management within AWS resources, a tag name with the value' my_first_ec2_instance' is applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tags: To facilitate easy identification and management within AWS resources, a tag name with the value `my_first_ec2_instance` is applied.
```

Tags: To facilitate easy identification and management within AWS resources, a tag name with the value `my_first_ec2_instance` is applied.

> ```

Author: It'll do no harm for context regardless.

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-east-1"
}

resource "aws_instance" "my_first_ec2_instance" {
  ami = "ami-123abc321cba18" 
  instance_type = "t2.micro" # Got to https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/t2/ for a full T2 instance type list.
  
  tags = {
    Name = "my_first_ec2_instance"
  }
}
```

> Go to [Terraform Documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/intro) for more information on Terraform. 

Author: Added a quick reference.

## Create a Workspace

A workspace is a named environment that stores Terraform configurations, variables, states, and other resources necessary to manage infrastructure.

> Users can define a Terraform configuration with multiple workspaces to enforce the same desired configuration. Each Workspace creates a different state with its own independent lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define a Terraform configuration with multiple workspaces to enforce the same desired configuration. Each Workspace creates a different state with an independent lifecycle.
```

For example, you can have a single configuration of a Kubernetes cluster and create multiple workspaces out of it, each leading to different clusters. The configuration is unique to each Workspace and can be managed through environment or Terraform variables.

To create a new workspace, follow these steps:

1. Sign in to [app.harness.io](https://app.harness.io/).

> 2. In the module pane, select **Infrastructures**.

Author: It doesn't Infrastructure singular is correct. good spot

3. Select an existing project or create a new project.
4. Select **Workspaces**, and then select **New Workspace**.

> 4. Select **Create new Workspace**.

Author: updated

Complete the fields as follows:

- **Name** - Type a unique name to identify the Workspace.
- **Description** - Type an optional description to help identify the Workspace.

> - **Connector** - Select the Harness connector to use during provisioning. You can select 

Reviewer: might be missing content after "You can select"

- **Workspace Type** - Select the IaC type you want to use. IaCM currently supports Terraform and OpenTofu
- **Terraform Version** - Select the OpenTofu/Terraform version the configuration supports. This version determines which version of Terraform to use during execution. Currently, Harness IaCM only supports the open-source versions of Terraform (all versions below 1.5.x).

> - **Repository** - Specify the Git configuration for the Terraform configuration files. You should specify the Harness Git connector, repository branch, and file path to the configuration files in the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Repository**: Specify the Git configuration for the Terraform configuration files. You should specify the Harness Git connector, repository branch, and file path to the configuration files in the repository.
```

> - **Add workspace details**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select **Add workspace details**.
```
